Common entities being available via YAML (#41037)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_posts/2025-10-01-release-202510.markdown

Now we added a new concept - sections of suggested entities. For now, it follows a basic algorithm and suggests entities you interacted the most with in the span of 24h, and shows them depending on the hour of the day. Only relevant controls will be suggested.

<img class="no-shadow" alt="Home Dashboard prediction entities" src="/images/blog/2025-10/temp-home-dashboard-prediction-entities.png" />

{% details "Prediction entities on any dashboard" %}

If you are experienced in customizing your dashboard sections with YAML you can bring these prediction controls into your own dashboard. It is built using a section strategy. Edit the YAML of your section-based dashboard, and under the sections key, as an individual entry, add ```{"strategy": {"type": "common-controls"}} ```

> {% enddetails %}

Reviewer: {% details "Prediction entities on any dashboard" %}

If you’re creating a manual dashboard with sections, you can integrate these prediction controls directly into it. The setup follows a section-based approach:

1. Add a new section.
2. Open and edit the YAML of that section.
3. Replace the entire section YAML with the following snippet:

```yaml
strategy:
  type: common-controls
  title: Common controls
```

{% enddetails %}

> 
> Now we added a new concept - sections of suggested entities. For now, it follows a basic algorithm and suggests entities you interacted the most with in the span of 24h, and shows them depending on the hour of the day. Only relevant controls will be suggested.
> 
> <img class="no-shadow" alt="Home Dashboard prediction entities" src="/images/blog/2025-10/temp-home-dashboard-prediction-entities.png" />
> 
> 
> {% details "Prediction entities on any dashboard" %}
> 
> If you are experienced in customizing your dashboard sections with YAML you can bring these prediction controls into your own dashboard. It is built using a section strategy. Edit the YAML of your section-based dashboard, and under the sections key, as an individual entry, add ```{"strategy": {"type": "common-controls"}} ```
> 
> {% enddetails %}

Reviewer: ````suggestion
{% details "Prediction entities on any dashboard" %}

If you’re creating a manual dashboard with sections, you can integrate these prediction controls directly into it. The setup follows a section-based approach:

1. Add a new section.
2. Open and edit the YAML of that section.
3. Replace the entire section YAML with the following snippet:

```yaml
strategy:
  type: common-controls
  title: Common controls
```

{% enddetails %}
````

Reviewer: @laupalombi I've rephrased the text. Let me know what you think.

Author: perfect! I like it better this way too
